# 05. Databases

## Table

**Represents a subject or event in an application.**
For eg: an ecommerce website

    We will have a table for 
        Users
        Products
        Purchases
        Reviews etc..

    And all the tables will form some sort of relationship.

And before we start we need to think about the relationship and design before hand so that we can design an efficient db.

- A table is made up of columns and rows
- Each Column represents a different attribute.
- Each row represents a different entry in the table.

## Databases

**They have datatypes just like any programming language*

Datatype   Postgres                        python

Numeric - Int, decimal, precision           int, float
Text - varchar, text                        string
bool - boolean                              boolean
sequence - array                            list

### Primary Key

- Is a column or group of columns that uniquely identified each row in table
- Table can have one and only one primary key
- Each entry must be unique and no duplicates
- It can be Id or some other column which can identify uniquely (like an email, phone numbers for signup)

### Unique Constraints

A Unique constraint can be applied to any column to make sure every record has a unique value for that column
Another column which could be unique but not a primary key.

### NULL Constraints

- By default, when adding a new entry to a database, any column can be left blank. When a column is left blank, it has a null value
- If you need column to be properly filled in to create a new record, a NOT NULL constraint can be added to the column to ensure that the column is never left blank.
